# Inverterd_Pendulum
Objective
	The objective of the Mechatronic project is to understand how to efficiently stabilize a static system becoming unstable when inverting a simple pendulum from rest. The mathematical system will be integrated in the control system that will first invert a pendulum upwards by moving horizontally a cart with a pendulum. A DC-motor, installed on the cart, represents the force to the pendulum driving on a pinion as observed on the mathematical model on page 9 . 
The inverted pendulum is a classical and fundamental Control Systems model. The challenge is to balance a pendulum vertically upwards from rest, using a mobile cart that can move horizontally in two directions left or right. 
The inverted pendulum is the best model to learn as control system engineers because it is the prototype for many types of real life systems such as motion control systems, altitude control of aircrafts or satellites, landing gears, etc. The different systems that the inverted pendulum exemplifies can be categorized into three different criterias: 
1.	The types of bases that actuates the pendulum. It can either have a  linear motion or a rotary on a horizontal plane. This is the Rotary Inverted System by Quanser systems[1], as shown in Figure 1.1.1 and Figure 1.1.2 [1].
2.	The number of links of the mechanism; each link represents a degree of freedom of the system. The more links a system has the more challenging the solution will be, as seen on Figure 1.1.3
3.	There are two types of mass distribution along the pendulum rod. The links can be a homogenous rod and have the mass at the center of gravity or the second option is to have a massless rod and have a mass at the end of the rod. 
